For decades energy security has been a central concern for the globeʹs industrialized states because even short term energy supply disruptions have the potential to cause upheaval and economic decline. As a consequence, control of and access to oil has shaped the political map until well into the last decade, contributing to interstate wars and violent conflict. Thus for energy import dependent states, one of the policymakersʹ main responsibilities is to curb all those potential political disturbances which could cause a supply crisis or an unacceptable energy price hike. Furthermore, in the 21st century the security and affordability dilemma has turned into a ʺtrilemmaʺ, including now climate action and sustainability considerations. A major problem is that under economic constraints these different goals are difficult to reconcile. Moreover, the road to a carbon free world as pledged by all 195 signatories of the 2015 Paris agreement will be bumpy and accompanied by new and until now unfamiliar geopolitical uncertainties. By discussing these questions in detail students will be able to gauge the difficulties to reconcile the energy security challenges in times of geopolitical turmoil with the need to mitigate the potential catastrophic effects of climate change.These new challenges, but also new chances for the different nationsʹ energy security policy of the 21 century will result from the obligation to phase out fossil fuels, to promote renewable energy and to implement a radical turn in the transport sector. In order to understand obstacles and potential conflicts on the path to achieve these ambitious goals we will look at the climate and energy policy of the Energy Union and key players like China and Russia.  We will in particular focus on the EUʹs  incompatible climate and energy policy with its ʺGreen Dealʺ aiming at a climate neutral Europe by 2050 and its parallel strategies of turning gas into a ʺbridge fuelʺ for the transition period. Some questions for this bloc would be: What are the implications of the EUʹsprioritization of energy security over sustainability concerns? And what are the motives for the EU to lock in Europeʹs future into wasteful and long term gas infrastructure projects (ʺstranded assetsʺ)?We will also deal with implementation problems of the energy transition focusing on the limits of technology and geo‑engineering and on the key question to what extent the new emerging hydrogen economy can serve as an alternative low carbon energy source. Attention will also be given to newly created geopolitical uncertainties associated with particular metals urgently needed for e‑mobility, creating possible resource supply constraints Also in context of the transition to a carbon free world we will discuss the potential for future geopolitical conflicts, caused by the move to a post fossil age that will change the present distribution of power with traditional oil exporters being confronted with a loss of wealth and global influence and being threatened by domestic instability.  Questions to be answered in this context are: to what extent are renewables able to replace fossil fuels? What about the future of electric mobility? How will fossil fuel producers deal with the obligations resulting from theParis goals? At the end of the course students will have a better understanding of the merits of the energy transition by making obsolete traditional energy security policy with its implications for war and conflict. Students will also understand the enormous challenges ahead by analyzing and discussing the requirements of managing this new era of renewables.
