ʺWe canʹt solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them.ʺThese words of Albert Einstein are more than ever, valid today. The complexities of todayʹs societies and the relations among them are multiple and not easy to deal with. Einsteinʹs plea to look at them in a different way is exactly what this course is about.It aims to transform your perspective on the world so that you notice that the ʹstuff of the worldʹ can be reflected on in neways, which offer opportunities for interventions and passageways for improvement. After all, making a difference requires more than the power to act: it requires to think in new ways, to think out of the box. And that is exactly what this course aspiresby introducing you into the field of Science and Technology Studies (STS).This course stresses the necessity to think about social, cultural, historical, political and economic circumstances in order to understand the evolution of science and technology. The development of science is often seen as, in essence, an autonomous process ‑a process of gradual accumulation of knowledge, driven by purely internal imperatives, such as the search for truth. In The same vein, technology has been largely considered as a process of applied science which simply follows from previous scientific advance. The field of Science and Technology Studies (STS) challenges this perspective. This course introduces you to the field of STS, and lays the foundation for new ways of understanding. You get acquainted with a number of examples to show the multiple ways in which science and technology, individuals and institutions mutually shape one another to the benefit and sometimes detriment of society.Note: In this course, we take a ʺcriticalʺ approach to science and engineering and its relation to society. By this, we donʹt mean being negative about science nor technology. But similar to the balanced viewpoints we expect from good movie critics, we will focus on developing your ability to judge the good and bad aspects of science and technology.
