Obtain the following book in advance:
Keller, M. (2020). Conflict management. Leadership practice (4th edition). Schaffhausen: KLV Verlag Westermann.
It is compulsory and accompanying reading for the course.
Learning objectives
Learning objectives
Course participants are attentive to conflictual interaction processes in professional practice and
shape them responsibly, constructively and sustainably. We connect scientific knowledge with personal
personal practice and develop it further.
Knowledge
Recognise different conflict constellations and conflict logics and plan adequate approaches based on metastrategies.
to plan adequate approaches.
Identify the approaches of conflict discussion and conflict clarification with regard to the product and process goals, the
strategies of intervention, the generic tasks, functions and stylistic features of the facilitator, the underlying
the underlying conception of man of humanistic psychology and the constructivist-systemic paradigm.
constructivist-systemic paradigm as the basis for action, contrast them with their own ideas and
contrast them with their own ideas and assess the possibilities and limitations.
Delineate internal, interpersonal and factual subject areas as aspects of the experience of conflict, and explain the practical
and recognise the practical use of such a systematisation for conflict diagnosis and as a structuring aid for conducting conversations.
recognise.
Skills
Introduce the ʹtruth of the situation in the here and nowʹ and negotiate impeding framework conditions, especially on the part of the
negotiate conflict parties.
In self-clarification, using quadratic and systemic questioning techniques as well as with the help of active listening, the present
Leaflet version: 1.0 dated 22.12.2020, valid for the spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 5
(want to) understand the content and emotion and enable clear self-statements.
Prevent harmony and solution-finding in the dialogical debate, thereby achieving clarity on the
The aim is to gain clarity about the issues, personal standpoints, cooperation and demands of the conflicting parties.
Creating acceptance for the ʹbeing this wayʹ by slowing down and structuring the grievances behind the accusations with the help of the
techniques of dialogising and dialogical doubling.
Using systemic explanations and appropriate brainstorming or brainwriting techniques to develop solutions.
and, if necessary, support it with the necessary restraint through paradoxical interventions or reframing techniques.
support.
Attitudes
Reservations, resistance and basic attitudes of the conflict parties towards the conflict discussion and
conflict resolution situation as given starting points or limits and thus overcome their own fear of conflict
overcoming their own fear of conflict resolution.
See, recognise and accept the motives of the conflict parties for their actions.
Be prepared to tactfully put oneself in the shoes of the parties involved and at the same time confront them directly and unflinchingly.
Maintain an inner demarcation vis-à-vis the parties to the conflict and their content, while at the same time adhering to an all-partial approach.
adhering to the principle of impartiality.
Accepting and embracing one's own conflict history.
Event content
Event content
Communication is what holds human systems together. However, when interpersonal relationships are at an impasse
approach as oppression, demarcation as alienation, common ground as separating, and the efforts of the people concerned to change this seemingly
and the efforts of those affected to change this seemingly hopeless situation only threaten to make everything worse
the self-preservation of a department, a team, a project group, an association, an educational institution or a company is at risk.
educational institution or a company is at risk. Conflicts have a separating and paralysing effect. Often the
Often those affected are afraid of consciously discussing and dealing with the conflicts. They react with defensiveness, arrogance or ignorance.
ignorance. Such reactions are not only detrimental to cooperation, but also to the climate and culture of a company or an educational institution.
and culture of a company or educational institution. At the same time, findings from science and practice
and practice show that conscious and constructive conflict management creates opportunities to deal with existing differences of interest and opinion.
and differences of opinion, to illuminate problems from different perspectives and to deepen the quality of interpersonal relationships.
deepen and enhance the quality of interpersonal relationships.

