It is recommended that the courses ʺPedagogical Psychologyʺ, ʺFundamentals of Business Educationʺ and ʺDidactic Transfer Iʺ have already been attended.
ʺDidactic Transfer Iʺ have already been attended.
Learning objectives
Students will...
...analyse current (Corona pandemic) and long-term megatrends and challenges for the education system (with a
focus on grammar schools and vocational schools (level Sek II))
...deal with new technologies in the educational context and design didactic concepts (e.g. on
Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality or MOOCs)
...concretise problems for didactic design in changed educational contexts
...develop first prototypes for a didactic intervention.
...test the prototype and use the experience and reflection for further development
...critically reflect on their didactic concepts and their own development processes and derive consequences for the
future.
Event content
Megatrends affect the social, technical and economic spheres. Currently, the management of the
pandemic is a major challenge for schools at the upper secondary level. Familiar educational processes and principles
are being called into question. New coping strategies are being implemented on an ad-hoc basis. Experiences from the first lockdown can be
be analysed, reflected upon and transferred into future designs.
Long-term developments such as demographic change, migration movements, mobility, ecologisation, digitalisation and others continue to have an impact on work processes,
digitisation and others have an impact on work processes and structures and lead to changed demands on the
education system. The following questions can be asked about the further development of educational institutions and sub-systems.
complex of questions can be included:
What are the required competences in the future that will enable pupils of the upper secondary level,
Instruction sheet version: 1.0 dated 04.01.2021, valid for the spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 4
actively participate in shaping the future?
Which teaching/learning scenarios can be used to train future-enabling competences?
What forms of examinations and assessments are useful, effective and efficient to use in the future?
How can learning contexts be specifically designed to promote hybrid learning?
How will the role and tasks of teachers change as a result?
What new technologies will shape the grammar school educational environment?
Event structure
In the spring semester of 2021, we will take a closer look at the underlying topics in a kick-off event. The
The event will not follow a prefabricated event structure, but will be
and their individual preparation into a didactic arrangement that is very close to the students' interests.
very close to the students' interests in this subject area.
Within the thematic field outlined above, the students select a current issue in groups under the guidance of the lecturers.
by the lecturers. This concrete question, i.e. the focus with which the group of students would like to deal in greater depth
This concrete question, i.e. the focus on which the group of students would like to deal in depth, is conceived by the students and approved by the lecturers.
The student group develops a didactic plan for a didactic intervention on this question. In doing so
the following aspects are to be considered in the didactic intervention:
Inclusion of relevant reference theories and their application (theoretical foundation).
Methodologically-didactically founded design of innovative and pedagogically valuable interventions
Support of critical reflection and self-reflection (experiential learning).
In the development and initial partial testing of the didactic intervention, an experimental attitude should shape the implementation and design.
and the design. The students carrying out the intervention and the participating students should, as far as possible
experiences that represent alternatives to common learning and teaching experiences and that contain hints for future design options.
design options.
In the reflection phase, the didactic concepts, the experience in the test and a related critical reflection become the driving force for one's own learning and teaching experience.
critical reflection become the driving force of the students' own experience-based learning. The structure of the course
is based on the research design of the ʺDesign-Based-Researchʺ approach. The students work through their own design-based
own Design-Based-Research project.
In the event of restrictive measures based on the current Corona crisis, the course will be offered as a purely online
event with alternating synchronous and asynchronous phases.
Event literature
The learning resources that serve as an introduction to the topic will be published at the beginning of the event with further resources on
CANVAS at the beginning of the event.

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
