In the course, students should achieve the following learning objectives:
They know characteristics of appreciative feedback.
They are able to formulate adequate feedback in different situations using specific techniques.
specific techniques.
They know central elements of a coaching attitude and implement these on the basis of tools and working aids.
implement them.
They are able to carry out individual coaching for efficient learning and working on the basis of digital media.
carry out.
They are able to develop a concept for the implementation of coaching offers (without or with digital media).
Event content
Those responsible for education in different contexts (e.g. school, university and company) are united by the task of increasingly taking on the role of learning
role of the learning facilitator. Accordingly, it is less a matter of instructing the respective clients (pupils, students or
employees) exactly what they have to learn or where they have development needs. Rather, the focus is on
Rather, the focus is on designing offers that enable and support self-organised learning. In this
In this context, the two techniques of feedback and coaching are of great importance for those responsible for education in the various contexts.
are of great importance.
In the corporate context, for example, managers must be in a position to continuously assess the performance and potential of their
and to support the employees in their continuous development process. Within the framework of a
In a cooperative management relationship, employees do not play a passive role in the personnel appraisal process,
but are actively involved. Whether they agree on goals with the manager following feedback discussions
or by assessing their own performance or that of other employees or team members. At this point
it is important to have techniques for feedback discussions.
In the school context too, giving and receiving feedback is a key feature in creating an environment that is conducive to learning.
conducive learning environment (e.g. Hattie, 2013).
Instruction sheet version: 1.0 dated 04.01.2021, valid for the spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 4
The benefit in the use of coaching elements is particularly evident against the background of recent developments.
recent times. Current trends in the economy, such as increased competition, challenges of digital transformation
or increasing globalisation, are placing ever greater demands on employees. On the part of the economy
employees are often expected to be more efficient and willing to perform, more flexible and more mobile.
employees are expected to be more flexible and mobile. At the same time, with the growing importance of the service and information society, employees are becoming an increasingly important resource.
information society, employees are becoming an increasingly important resource in the business performance process. The use of
coaching elements can contribute to supporting the necessary flexibility of employees, especially in agile times.
support.
The aim of the course is to prepare students to conduct feedback discussions and coaching processes.
coaching processes. The focus is on coping with the demands of social communication in various situations.
different situations.
Contents
Elements of learning support and implementation possibilities
Design criteria of appreciative feedbacks
Feedback as an important element to accompany self-directed learning in different contexts (school & company).
company)
The essence of coaching
Coaching tools and practical exercises (e.g. systemic questioning techniques)
Learning-oriented counselling sessions with stakeholders
Coaching with digital media - overview and practical testing
Course structure
The course is divided into the two topics of feedback conversations and coaching processes, with the
focus is on coaching. The theory is elaborated on the basis of practical examples and is complemented by training sessions on
and is rounded off with training on the design of feedback talks and coaching processes.
The course is offered as a three-day block course in the break. The course is structured as follows:
1. orientation to the event and introduction to the topic of feedback (day 1 in presence).
2. basics of coaching & implementation of various coaching exercises (day 2 in presence)
3. basics of e-coaching & implementation of further coaching exercises in the virtual room (day 3 in virtual room).
Veranstaltungs-Zusatzinformationen

