The course Didactic Transfer II is integrated into the first training level of the reformed training course
business education. It is intended for the Master's level and should ideally be taken in the eighth semester according to a study proposal by the IWP.
it should ideally be taken in the 8th semester. Within the framework of the course Didactic Transfer II, it is assumed that the students will take this course,
that the students will orient themselves to this study proposal. On the basis of this, it is assumed that
attended various courses (e.g. Fundamentals of Business Education, Educational Psychology), in which theoretical
theoretical foundations that are relevant for the course Didactic Transfer II.
were discussed. In addition, the students should have attended the course Didactic Transfer I, so that they have gained initial experience in planning, implementing and teaching.
experience in planning, implementing and following up on teaching experiments (microteaching).
Learning objectives
According to the requirements of the EDK, the course Didactic Transfer II thus contributes to the development of subject didactic competences (learning objectives).
didactic competences (learning objectives). With regard to the requirements of SERI, the course Didactic Transfer II makes a contribution above all to
contribution to achieving the educational objective 2 ʺPlanning teaching units appropriate to the situation and with reference to the learners' professional practice.
planning, implementing and reviewing them with reference to the learners' professional practiceʺ. Furthermore, the educational objectives 1 and 6 ʺDeal with learners as an interaction process
interaction processʺ and ʺTransfer from practice to theory and from theory to practiceʺ are promoted.
practiceʺ are promoted. With regard to the competency profile of business education training, which relates
to the requirements of SERI,Didactic Transfer II supports the competence areas 1 (ʺReflecting on one's own role as a
reflecting on and shaping one's own role as a specialist and teacher and actively shaping the school context), 3 (ʺpreparing and implementing teaching units or measures and
(ʺPreparing, implementing and following up on educational measuresʺ) and 5 (ʺShaping interaction situations with various stakeholdersʺ).
stakeholder groupsʺ).
Course content
In Didactic Transfer I, the students mainly practised the teaching method of the teaching talk. The
focus in Didactic Transfer II is on expanding the teaching method repertoire.
Accordingly, the students are to practise selected teaching methods - apart from the teaching talk (e.g. case studies, jig-saw,
peer instruction, role plays, design-based learning). On the one hand, this will be realised
teaching experiment. Lesson planning is to be based on the process model (Euler & Hahn) of didactic planning.
didactic planning. For the students, it is to be taken into account that they choose a topic from the subject areas of business studies, economics,
accounting or law and that they establish a reference to relevant curricula. The testing of
teaching methods (e.g. role play, case study, jig-saw, project teaching, design-based learning (learning through design) and
learning through teaching) takes place in the form of teaching simulations (microteachings). During the testing of the
When testing the teaching methods, the other, ʺstandard assessment criteriaʺ (learning content, lesson design/structure, etc.) are also taken into account,
Instruction sheet version: 1.0 dated 04.01.2021, valid for the spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 4
teaching behaviour, interaction design) for a lesson delivery. After the lesson has been conducted
a reflection is to be written. On the other hand, the students observe lessons in a real school context (to the extent of one double lesson), taking into account one lesson.
of a double lesson), taking into account an observation assignment. The focus here is also on teaching methods.
is set. This gives the students the opportunity to perceive what they have learnt about lesson design once again from the perspective of school practice.
from the perspective of school practice.
Course structure
The course consists of introductory lectures, self-study, coaching/feedback discussions and student teamwork.
student teamwork. In the self-study, the lesson planning and reflection are to be written as well as the
organise the observation sessions and complete the observation assignments. These processes are supported by coaching and
feedback meetings. The organisation of the teaching methods (incl. group allocation) takes place in the first session,
while the implementation of the teaching methods (incl. feedback) as well as an exchange of experience on the observations in the small group (teams of two) take place.
in the small group (teams of 2). Compulsory attendance dates: Individual dates in the programme are so important for
are so important for the acquisition of the degree that they are compulsory attendance dates (depending on the conditions, face-to-face attendance or online attendance).
or online presence). Specifically, attendance at the following dates is compulsory:

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)