The students...
...develop a realistic insight into the areas of responsibility and possibilities of action of education management.
...learn to understand the embedding of education management in the different institutional contexts, develop
develop approaches for analysing and solving current problems of education management
...reflect on their own role as a teacher and/or person responsible for education.
In this way, the course takes into account the educational objectives of the framework curriculum for teachers of vocational education and training (SERI).
(SERI):
Understand the legal, advisory and operational environment, deal with it and with the legal representatives.
(educational objective 4)
Reflect on one's own work and work cooperatively with others (educational objective 5).
In relation to the competence profile of the education in business education, the following competences are promoted:
Reflecting on and shaping one's own role as a subject and teacher & actively shaping the school context (KB 1).
Finding one's way in the context of an educational organisation & shaping one's own role as an education officer (KB
2)
Course content
This course focuses on the educational science and didactic professionalism of teachers and educational
in schools, universities and other educational organisations. Educational management
refers to a field that encompasses the management of education in different contexts. In this
In this course, the focus is on vocational schools (upper secondary level), but companies, universities and other educational organisations also play a role.
Leaflet version: 1.0 dated 11.01.2021, valid for the spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 3
and other educational organisations are included. Educational management takes place on the macro-, meso- and
microdidactic level of an organisation and thus also has an influence on didactic decisions.
Course structure
The course is designed as a weekly lecture. The contents are reflected on in group work, as well as the
problems of educational management are analysed on the basis of case studies with reference to various organisational contexts and
and solutions for selected questions of education management are developed.
The lectures are accompanied by assignments (e.g. questions, discussions, ...) on the topic.
Course literature
The lecture is based on the following textbook:
Seufert, Sabine (2013). Bildungsmanagement: Einführung für Studium und Praxis. Stuttgart: Schäffer-Poeschel.
Further lecture notes and additional literature will be provided at the start of the semester.
Supplementary event information
If you have any questions about the course, please contact eric.tarantini@unisg.ch (teaching assistant).
Any changes in the course format (due to Corona) will be communicated promptly via CANVAS.
The course will be held online via the Zoom platform; The course recordings will be stored for 30 days.
The instructor will inform via StudyNet about the modified delivery modalities of the course.
examination information below would be changed as follows: The written examination will take place online and will be
recorded

