Students think and act didactically in the role of teachers and vocational training personnel.
Students apply the typical didactic actions (needs analysis, target group description, goal definition, intervention planning, interaction design, communication design, measurement and testing, evaluation) in concrete educational situations.
Students analyze current developments and challenges for the educational system and derive initial consequences for the various didactic levels of action.
The objectives of the course contribute in particular to the business education competence profile in the following dimensions:
Competence area 1:Reflecting on and shaping one's own role as a subject specialist and teacher & actively shaping the school context.
Competence area 2:Finding one's way in the context of an educational organization & shaping one's own role as an educational manager.
Event Content
1. learning and understandings of learning
Teaching and teaching perceptions
Communicating in educational processes Interacting purposefully in educational processes
Places of learning and teaching
  
 Educational system and sub-educational systems
Fields of development and tensions in education Challenges and megatrends in education Teachers and vocational trainers and their professionalization
Event Structure
The event combines lecture sequences with forms of self-directed development of content using provided learning resources as well as presentations / discussions. In the second part of the course an application project takes place, which inductively takes up or deepens individual didactic design fields.
The course is designed as a hybrid course in HS20. There will be alternating (part-)group attendance events with online (part-group) events. The online phases will include synchronous and asynchronous elements.
In the event of a second lockdown, there will be a switch to a fully online delivery of the course. There will be no changes in learning objectives or content as a result. The written exam will be replaced by a written assignment.
