After completing the course, learners will be able to analyse leadership situations in different contexts and sectors (business
and education) and design them as interaction processes.
Knowledge: Learners can explain a model of interaction in leadership and explain individual aspects of the model in more depth.
explain.
Skills: The learner is able to experience leadership situations, both before and during the course, with leadership based on a model of leadership.
experienced, analyse and reflect with leadership on the basis of a model of interaction in leadership.
Skills: Learners can use methods and techniques to design different interaction situations in
leadership contexts and carry them out.
Attitudes: The learners develop the readiness to recognise and perceive their own responsibilities and scope for action in leadership situations.
and scope for action in leadership situations.
Course content
Even with formal authority, leadership means negotiating decisions, motivating staff and moderating compromises.
and moderating compromises. In this course, participants work on concrete case studies of typical leadership situations from different
typical leadership situations from different contexts. Using a general model of interaction in leadership situations, they will
they analyse the case studies and develop solutions for them. The practical implementation of the solutions
The participants present the practical implementation of the solutions in the form of short video sequences, which are then analysed. Analysis and
of concrete leadership situations go hand in hand.
Event structure
The event is designed as a three-day block course. In the first part of the course, on the basis of a preparatory literature work
a theory-based model for the analysis and design of interaction processes in leadership situations. In the
In the further course, independent development, a video-based presentation and analysis of concrete leadership situations will be carried out.
Instruction sheet version: 1.0 from 04.01.2021, valid for the spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 4
cases to expand and deepen the model. The oral group examination takes place in the last part of the course. Accompanying
a portfolio (written homework) is prepared, which serves to prepare for and follow up on the course. 
