Students know methods of interpreting literary texts and can apply these in their own critical reading of The Satanic Verses. Students understand how The Satanic Verses engages with the experiences of postcolonial migrants to Britain and with questions of 
identity and transformation in the self and in society. 
Students can explain why Rushdie?s critique of religion aroused controversy and can connect the ?Rushdie affair? to general issues of free speech and censorship. 
?Is Nothing Sacred?? This was the question raised by Salman Rushdie?s deliberately provocative novel, The Satanic Verses (1988). The response of a section of the Muslim community was outrage: mass protests and the public burning of Rushdie?s novel were followed by Ayatollah Khomeini?s fatwa, which called upon Muslims to assassinate Rushdie, his publishers and translators. The book remains banned in several countries for alleged blasphemy against Islam. 
Few of those who have condemned or defended The Satanic Verses have read it, although it is one of the most important novels of the late twentieth century. This course is designed to make it accessible to you and thus enable you to make your own informed judgement about it. Although controversy has centred on Rushdie?s treatment of religion, you?ll discover that his book about migrants to Margaret Thatcher?s Britain is also a postcolonial satire and a fascinating autobiographical work. We will clarify what orthodox Muslims find offensive in it, locate Rushdie?s politically engaged narrative in the multicultural London of the 1980s, and consider its legacy in public debate about free speech and censorship. I must emphasise, however, that the predominant focus of the course is on literary analysis rather than on the legal and philosophical ramifications of the ?Rushdie affair?. 
The Satanic Verses is a complex novel, so anyone participating in this course must be willing to invest the time and effort required to engage with its difficulties. I strongly recommend Paul Brians?s comprehensive notes:https://brians.wsu.edu/2017/02/08/cover-satanic-verses/ 
Fact sheet version: 2.0 as of 09/10/2020, valid for Autumn Semester 2020 Page 1 / 4 
Course structure 
Weekly seminars. 
Contextual Studies are considered part of Contact Learning; thus, taking part properly implies regular attendance, be it online or in the classroom. In order to fully comply with the distance and hygiene rules applicable at the university, the course can be taught online or in smaller groups. It is the students? own responsibility to ensure that there is no timetable clash between the courses they have chosen. A detailed course outline and all relevant documents will be made available on Studynet 
