The students
know and understand the problem of anonymity on the Internet, the arguments for and against it.
are able to analyze and reflect on the motives, myths and functions surrounding anonymity and anonymization based on case studies from history and the present.
are able to embed current discussions about anonymous actors on the Internet historically and thus assess their significance for today's society and politics in a realistic way.
The internet puts identities up for discussion. It creates unprecedented opportunities to connect with others, to exchange, to present oneself. But this visibility is also a trap. One is permanently observed and controlled. At the same time, it also offers new possibilities for concealment, for covering one's tracks. Anonymity is becoming more and more important. This gives rise to new forms of collectives such as Anonymous and the hope of a completely uncensored exchange of knowledge. But it also gives rise to QAnon, which uses anonymity for its conspiracy theories: Any attempts ʺQʺ to reveal failed.
As new as the technology and the phenomenon appear: The tactics of concealment and disclosure on the web have a history. Each media technology push also shakes up society and leads to new ways of concealing in return for celebrating identity. Tracing this long history of anonymity, we want to understand the present.
Event structure
        Leaflet version: 1.0 dated 06.01.2021, valid for spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 4
 1. introduction: the threat to the self on the net and the right to anonymity.
2. how it all began: The literary underground, letterpress printing, and the Enlightenment
3. the revolution of the press, anonymous revolutionaries and the birth of the intellectual 4. encrypted identities: Cyberspace and the cryptoanarchists
5. the digital underground and new forms of collectives
6. qAnon forever? An outlook on future constellations
Contextual studies are contact studies in form; therefore, proper attendance includes regular participation, whether online or in presence.In order to fully comply with the distance and hygiene rules in force at the university, the course can be attended online or in small groups. Students themselves must ensure that course dates do not overlap. The exact course schedule and all documentation will be provided on Studynet at the beginning of the course.

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
