Students will
know ?how they became what they are?, thus know the development of modern self-understanding and the dynamics of the society in which they live today;can reflexively and independently combine theory and practice;
creatively implement their own ideas;can experiment in their personal lives with the insights they have gained.
Can ?I? still be saved? Or is the ?I? still salvageable? (And how many ?Selfies? does it take?) If you want to succeed in life or find your role in society, if you want to commit yourself to something or savor experiences, what matters is your own ?Self? understanding. This brings us to the problem of identity, which is the topic of this seminar.
We will critically examine the most influential ?I? images and ?Self? concepts that have become effective in modern society. They are used in all areas of life - private, political, economic, cultural. The seminar will address the following questions, among others: When do ?I? really feel ?frei?? If I am constantly playing some role or other - where does that leave my true self? How does the culture I come from shape me? What does it mean to manage or optimize one's own life? What is the point of being oriented toward ?self-interest? if I may not even know what I want? Can I get to know myself better if I become a ?quantified self?? Do I need secrets from others? Am I identical to my presence on social media?
The texts discussed in the seminar come primarily from the disciplines of philosophy, sociology, psychology, business and economics.
Event structure
The seminar will take place on a weekly basis. The discussion is based on classical and current texts on the one hand, and on concrete cases of application on the other. Summaries by the seminar leader serve to secure the results. A selection of the following identity concepts and texts will be discussed:
1. the liberal self (John Stuart Mill)
   Instruction sheet version: 1.0 from 06.01.2021, valid for spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 4
 2. the repressive self (Sigmund Freud, Norbert Elias)
3. the social self (George Herbert Mead) 4. the enacted self (Erving Goffmann) 4. the cultural self (Michael Walzer)
5. the economic self (Amartya Sen) 7. the organizational self (William Whyte) 6. the entrepreneurial self (Peter Drucker, Nikolas Rose)
7. the quantified self 10. the online self
8. the exhausted self (Alain Ehrenberg)
Contextual study is contact study in form; therefore, proper attendance includes regular participation, whether online or face-to-face.In order to fully comply with the spacing and hygiene rules in place at the university, the course may be taken online or in small groups. Students themselves must ensure that course dates do not overlap. The exact course schedule and all documentation will be provided on Studynet at the beginning of the course.
