Students will
recognize climate research and observation as a cultural practice through which historically situated needs and sociopolitical agendas are negotiated, especially the relationship between nature and technology. can compare the agendas behind texts and materials from different contexts of use (politics, literature, journalism, etc.), distinguish their mechanisms of operation, situate them historically, and identify the needs and agendas behind them.
can reflect on these needs and agendas in terms of their respective lifeworld validity by relating course materials to their technological, political, and economic contexts. can recognize their respective rhetorical, fictional, and historical elements as instruments of social communication on the one hand, and use them themselves on the other, based on the differences and similarities between literary and non-literary texts.
In recent years, global climate change has become one of the major issues facing society as a whole. The roots of discussions about it go back a long way, as the observation of the weather is one of the most important survival techniques of mankind. Attempts to draw systematizable conclusions from this, however, are often shaped by agendas that have nothing or only indirectly to do with the weather itself, but rather react to historically situated framework conditions of a technological, economic, or political nature and accordingly contain rhetorical, fictional, and other polemical-manipulative elements. The course introduces the history of weather observation since the Late Bronze Age using textual materials from a variety of contexts of use (historiography, diaries, literature, newspaper articles, etc.). The texts will be discussed comparatively in the sessions so that these elements become visible and can be analyzed by us in conversation for their function and validity in dealing with the phenomenon of climate.
    Event structure
The course will take place online via Zoom.
Instruction sheet version: 1.0 from 06.01.2021, valid for spring semester 2021
Page 1 / 4
 
 1. introduction: from farmer's rules to weather forecasting. Climatology and social history 2. Weather, gods, trade networks: Odysseus and the end of the Bronze Age economy.
3. monotheistic disciplining: the Flood and other biblical punitive measures
4. water vapor and data collection: from Goethe's clouds to the Cloud
5. signals of passion: romantic thunderstorms
6. a question of nerves: weather sensitivity and the invention of telegraphy
7. natural force war technology: Ernst Jünger, Storm (1923)
8th Man Makes Climate I: The Sahara Sea in Jules Verne, The Breaking of the Sea (1905) 9th Man Makes Climate II: Air Pollution in Clara Chow, Haze (2018).
10. stagings: Donald Trump and the Thunberg Effect
11. media and viruses: the example of COVID19 editorials in the NZZ 12. final session: digital storms.
Contextual studies are contact studies in form; therefore, proper attendance includes regular participation, whether online or face-to-face.In order to fully comply with the spacing and hygiene rules in place at the university, the course may be attended online or in small groups. Students themselves must ensure that course dates do not overlap. The exact course schedule and all documentation will be provided on Studynet at the beginning of the course.

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
