Students 
know the history of consumers from early modern Europe to contemporary Asia and key moments of transformation, know classic texts from sociology, anthropology and economics on consumers as well as historical texts, know the role of consumers as social and political actors, are able to reflect on contemporary debates about consumers as ʺresponsibleʺ or ʺirresponsibleʺ actors from a historical perspective, and look ahead to the future place of consumers with regard to well‐being and sustainability. 
Consumers are integral to the modern world. We are all ʺconsumersʺ now. What this means, however, and how we should understand consumption has been the subject of long, explosive debate. Consumption straddles individual desire and civic responsibility, needs and wants, private and public life. Special attention will be paid to debates about consumers as ʺresponsibleʺ or ʺirresponsibleʺ actors. 
In this seminar we will follow consumers from early modern Europe to contemporary Asia to explore key moments of transformation. Seminar readings combine classic texts from sociology, anthropology and economics with historical texts on consumers as social and political actors. 
Students will gain familiarity with classic texts and theories. They will acquire critical, historically informed analytical thought. They will gain knowledge about the role of consumers as social and political actors. 
The seminar will begin with classic theories of consumption. It will then move chronologically and thematically through major developments and debates, including the luxury debates; consumer boycotts; shopping and gender identities; class and status; the consumer as citizen; Americanisation and Asian consumer cultures. Consuming needs time as well as money. We will therefore also consider economic approaches to the allocation of time and debate the idea of a ʺharried societyʺ. The seminar will conclude with a discussion about how contemporary debates about consumers as ʺresponsibleʺ or ʺirresponsibleʺ actors is grounded in history, and look ahead to the future place of consumers with regard to well‐being and sustainability. 
Course structure 
Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 14/01/2021, valid for Spring Semester 2021 Page 1 / 4 
Blockseminar. Seminar discussion; short lectures; advice on essay topics, research strategy and writing. Contextual Studies are considered part of Contact Learning; thus, taking part properly implies regular attendance. It is the 
studentsʹ own responsibility to ensure that there is no timetable clash between the courses they have chosen. 
