Students 
have a fundamental understanding of risk management and insurance from a historical perspective, understand current challenges in the society with relevance for insurance such as demography, climate risk, and other emerging risks, are able to learn from historical cases for current challenges in insurance management such as the demographic change (and the design of social security systems), climate change (increasing number and severity of catastrophes and what to do about it), other emerging risks (e.g. asbestos), the increasing role of emerging markets, and new technologies, are able to reflect on fundamental megatrends and questions of our time from a historical perspective, know historical failures of insurance companies and are able to derivate lessons for future regulation. 
The course is designed for students interested in risk management and financial institutions, especially insurance. The course is relevant both from a professional as well as from a personal point of view. The reason is that it provides a fundamental understanding of risk management and insurance from a historical perspective which is helpful for personal insurance decisions and provides insights into an exciting industry with interesting jobs. It also helps improving your understanding of current challenges in the society with relevance for insurance such as demography, climate risk, and other emerging risks. We will discuss the history of insurance. Especially we will analyze what we can learn from historical cases for current challenges in insurance management such as the demographic change (and the design of social security systems), climate change (increasing number and severity of catastrophes and what to do about it), other emerging risks (e.g. asbestos), the increasing role of emerging markets, and new technologies. The seminar thus offers an opportunity to discuss and reflect fundamental megatrends and questions of our time from a historical perspective. Another focus will be on historical failures of insurance companies and the derivation of lessons for future regulation. Special emphasis will be laid on empirical and applied topics. A detailed list with topics will be provided in the first meeting. 
Course structure 
Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 23/12/2020, valid for Spring Semester 2021 Page 1 / 4 
Students will be assigned a broad field of research. All students are expected to hand in a seminar paper. I will provide a list of topics in the first class; students will have a chance to hand in their preferences. During the block seminar participants will be asked to present the main findings of their paper and take the role of a discussant for another paper. In addition, participation in the general discussion is expected. Students are required to be present during all presentations and discussions. Attendance in the introductory lecture is also strongly recommended. Additional individual appointments can be made. Other deadlines (submission of papers etc.) will be announced in the kick off meeting. 
Contextual Studies are considered part of Contact Learning; thus, taking part properly implies regular attendance. It is the studentsʹ own responsibility to ensure that there is no timetable clash between the courses they have chosen. 


