Students 
know the basic etiology of different financial crises including their main causes and consequences as well as the main facts surrounding those crises, know the basic ideas and concepts of behavioral economics relevant to explaining financial crises, are able to apply the understanding of financial history to form own and original beliefs about contemporary crises and the way they are tackled in political discourse and policy‐making. 
Financial markets are not merely prone to crises, but also shaped by them in many important ways. The outbreak of the US sub‐prime mortgage crisis and subsequent European sovereign debt crisis has ‐ again ‐ thrived academic interest in the history of financial turbulence. Causes and consequences of historical crises as well as the impact of policy and economic responses are of significant importance today as they show how aspects of todayʹs financial system originated. 
The aim of this course is to develop a profound understanding of the conditions under which financial crises evolved and the conditions under which particular policy responses were successful or failed. We will study episodes of financial turbulence spanning five centuries ranging from the Dutch tulip mania of the late 17th century to the US sub‐prime mortgage and the European sovereign debt crisis in the early 21st century. 
A particular focus of this course is the application of novel economic concepts to explaining stakeholder behavior that led to historical crises. In particular, behavioral economics and finance offers a variety of novel explanations as to the roots of boom and bust in financial markets. 
By the end of the course, students should be familiar with: 
The basic etiology of different financial crises including their main causes and consequences as well as the main facts surrounding those crises. 
Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 06/01/2021, valid for Spring Semester 2021 Page 1 / 4 
Basic ideas and concepts of behavioral economics relevant to explaining financial crises. Ways to apply the understanding of financial history to form own and original beliefs about contemporary crises and the way they are tackled in political discourse and policy‐making. 
Course structure 
Students will be assigned one episode of financial turbulence (e.g., Dutch tulip mania of the late 17th century) to work on. The allocation of topics will be based on individual studentsʹ preferences stated after the first class, where a complete list of topics will be provided. All students are expected to individually hand in a 10‐page seminar paper on their assigned topic. During a block seminar, students are expected to present their seminar paper and also act as a discussant of another studentʹs paper. Each author and discussant presentation is followed by a general discussion of the seminar paper. 
Course deadlines (e.g., for submission of seminar papers and presentations) as well as options of exchange with the lecturer will be announced in the first seminar session. 
Contextual Studies are considered part of Contact Learning; thus, taking part properly implies regular attendance, be it online or icon the classroom. In order to fully comply with the distance and hygiene rules applicable at the university, the course can be taught online or in smaller groups. It is the studentsʹ own responsibility to ensure that there is no timetable clash between the courses they have chosen.A detailed course outline and all relevant documents will be made available onStudynet. 
