Students understand in historical context the main ways in which Southerners imagined and represented their regional and cultural identity from just before the Civil War to the Civil Rights movement and can analyse them critically. 
Students can connect these ideological constructions of the South with Gone with the Wind, The Birth of a Nation, The Marrow of Tradition and the texts in the Course Reader. 
Popular myths of the American South continue to shape the United States today. Examining them critically is the topic of this historical course.Its focus lies on the racially segregated society which developed between the end of the Civil War and the Civil Rights movement of the 1960s. 
Before the Civil War, in propagandist defences of slavery as opposed to ʹwage slaveryʹ,Southerners came to imagine their cultural identity as qualitatively different from the industrial capitalist North.Following the Civil War,in the traumatic aftermath of their defeat and occupation by Northern armies, a nostalgic idealisation of the ʹLost Causeʹ developed alongside the ideology of the ʹNew Southʹ, which sought to combine economic modernisation with social conservatism. At the end of the nineteenth century, in a backlash against the progressive reforms of the Reconstruction era, ʹJim Crowʹ segregation was institutionalised across the southern states. In what was still a predominantly agrarian society, sharecropping created new forms of economic dependency for both blacks and poor whites. 
To grasp the experiential reality of the South in these years, weʹll study not only literary and visual representations but also autobiographical, historical and sociological texts and political speeches. These will be approached from the analytical perspectives of class and caste, and sexuality and miscegenation.The study materials for the course comprise: two controversial films ‐ Victor Flemingʹs Gone with the Wind (1939) and D.W. Griffithʹs The Birth of a Nation (1915); Charles Chesnuttʹs novel, The Marrow of Tradition (1901), which powerfully conveys the entire spectrum of black and white attitudes to racial segregation and wasbased on an actual seizure of power by white supremacists in Wilmington, NC, in 1898; a Course Reader. 
Course structure 
Twice‐weekly seminars 
