The students
have a profound knowledge of modernization and transformation theories, are able to independently develop and work on questions concerning transformation research, and independently develop project designs,
assess the range and limits of the respective methodological approaches.
The course deals with the question of how modern societies can be further developed in such a way that their central civilizational achievements such as democracy, freedom and the rule of law are preserved, but their material basis is changed in favor of a sustainable relationship with nature.
As inhabitants of the modern age, we can look back on a - variously fractured and often ambivalent, but still - breathtaking history of humane progress and enjoy a civilizational standard of freedom, participation, security, and prosperity that is historically unparalleled. But the metabolism on which this progress is based cannot be continued in the 21st century; it is too destructive - for the Earth system, the climate, the biosphere, the oceans, many people - for that. From my point of view, a kind of minimalist categorical imperative derives from this: you must help to preserve this standard of civilization. It is clear that ?civilizational standard? does not mean material abundance, but the immaterial goods: freedom, security, justice, institutions of education, health, care. If we want to preserve all this and - because the world is changing - modernize it, we have to change our material material turnover. To paraphrase a famous literary quotation, we must change everything so that much can remain as it is.
The seminar is thus concerned with the concrete utopia of a next modernity. This includes a politics of sustainability, a change of path in everyday life, new transnational organizations, in short: a utopian realism.
   Instruction sheet version: 1.0 dated 06.01.2021, valid for spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 4
 Event Structure
The mode of operation will consist of collaborative development of themes that may be central to a next modernity, presentations by working group, development of concrete utopias. The topics and literature for the presentations will be discussed and determined in advance.
Contextual study is contact study in form; therefore, proper attendance includes regular participation, whether online or face-to-face.In order to fully comply with the spacing and hygiene rules in place at the university, the course may be taken online or in small groups. Students must make their own arrangements to ensure that course dates do not overlap. The exact course schedule and all documentation will be provided on Studynet at the beginning of the course.
