Students will: 
acquire a critical understanding of key concepts in international trade theory analyse the history of international trade policy since 1815 and apply their understanding to contemporary debates assess the political economy of trade liberalization and protectionism, and consider the effects of a range of trade policies on producers, consumers, and emerging economies 
Recent years have seen an escalation of trade tensions between the US, China, and Europe, with protectionist tariffs and anti‐ globalization policies gaining in political support since the Great Recession. This course places those trade conflicts in their long‐ run perspective, examining how political actors and institutions have shaped and contested tariff and trade policies over the past 200 years. The seminars introduce students to key concepts in international trade theory, while examining the politics of trade diplomacy through select case studies from Europe, the US, Latin America, and Asia. 
Structured chronologically, the course starts by exploring the development of free trade and protectionism during the long nineteenth century. The second part of the course focuses on the rise of tariff barriers and disruptions to global trade during the inter‐war Great Depression. The third part surveys the rebuilding of world trading relations in the post‐war decades by examining the institutional legacy of the Bretton Woods order, before considering recent developments in regional trade agreements. 
Informed by both history and economics, the seminar discussion will engage with excerpts of trade treaties, as well as the reports of the World Trade Organization, the IMF, GATT, NAFTA, the EEC, and EC. In its concluding section, the course will reflect on how the growth of the BRIC economies, the aftermath of the Eurozone crisis and the Covid‐19 pandemic are re‐shaping current debates about trade coordination. 
Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 12/01/2021, valid for Spring Semester 2021 Page 1 / 4 
Course structure 
The course will be conducted online via Zoom (without saved recordings) in a seminar format. The seminars take the form of short presentations, group work, and guided discussion. An introductory session, outlining the objectives and readings for the course, will take place in Calendar Week 9. Participants are expected to read the compulsory texts for each session of the Blockseminar and may also be asked to complete small writing tasks and position papers on aspects of the readings. 
The course assessment comprises individual presentations and a take‐home examination in the form of an essay (2,500 words, excluding the title page, references, and bibliography). The presentation topics will be listed in the complete course outline and a sign‐up sheet for the presentations will be made available shortly after the introductory meeting. 
Contextual Studies are considered part of Contact Learning; thus, taking part properly implies regular attendance, be it online or icon the classroom. In order to fully comply with the distance and hygiene rules applicable at the university, the course can be taught online or in smaller groups. It is the studentsʹ own responsibility to ensure that there is no timetable clash between the courses they have chosen.A detailed course outline and all relevant documents will be made available onStudynet. 
