The prerequisite for participation in the integrative portfolio is the successful completion of one or two courses from the same area of concentration (6 ECTS in total) in which the portfolio is attended. Bidding is closed after the third round. By bidding on this course you accept the above mentioned conditions. 
Interested students who satisfy the requirements may contact the Portfolio instructor at Portfolio.History@unisg.ch. Please use the following reference in your subject line: FS21 MA Portfolio History <Name>. 
General learning objectives: 
independent conceptualisation of a specific research question that integrates a core subject course and a course in the relevant area of concentration; integration of topics, theories and methods across the boundaries of courses and disciplines; acquisition of argumentative, methodological and linguistic competencies for an optimal preparation for the Bachelorʹs or Masterʹs thesis; 
development of a capacity for (active and passive) constructive criticism in dialogue with other students in the Portfolio. 
Learning objectives for the ʺHistoryʺ area of concentration: 
‐ analyse questions from the core subject from a historical perspective 
‐ know, understand and critically reflect on method and theory in history and the chosen core subject 
‐ know, understand and critically reflect different ways to integrate historical analysis with analytical tools from the core subjects 
‐ choose and apply an appropriate interdisciplinary approach for topic of the research paper ‐ reflect on the learning process in the seminar. 
Course content 
The Integrative Portfolio will provide you with an innovative learning experience that links contextual studies with your core Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 05/01/2021, valid for Spring Semester 2021 Page 1 / 4 
subject. You will develop an interdisciplinary research question on the basis of the courses relevant to the Portfolio and refine the question together with faculty and fellow students. You will work through your research question in your Portfolio essay, from which you will also derive important experience for your Bachelorʹs thesis. In addition, the successful completion of the course will be reported in the diploma supplement. 
The Portfolio emphasizes reflection on what you have learnt to date and discussion of major topics from the courses which you want to treat in more detail. You will reflect on your learning process, receive regular feedback from faculty and fellow students and write up your insights in the concluding Portfolio essay. The course language is German in the autumn semesters and English in the spring semesters, but the Portfolio essay may be written in either language (this is exceptional as it deviates from the general rule applicable at the HSG, whereby the course language is identical with the examination language). 
Course structure 
Undergraduates and Master students will attend the Portfolio alongside one another. The Portfolio is a blended learning course whichmay include in‐person teaching and online teaching formats.Compulsory meetings include a kick‐off, a mid‐term meeting and a concluding meeting. The current dates in the online schedule will apply. Further meetings with the whole group or in small groups by arrangement. 
