Know and critically reflect the historical context in which Keynes theories emerged Know and critically reflect Keynes theories and the associated debates Know and critically reflect the development of Keynesianism after Keynes Know and critically reflect the application of Keynesian theories to economic problems 
The ideas of Keynes have experienced changing fortunes over the last hundred years or so. In the 1920s and 30s Keynes successfully challenged orthodox economics and his new theories helped overcoming the Great Depression. After the Second World War Keynesian economic policies made possible the ʹGolden Age of Kapitalismʹ: high growth, low unemployment and steadily growing prosperity accross most industrialised economies. His influence also shaped the system of international cooperation the led to the creation of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. From the 1970s, however, the glory faded: many western countries entered a period of stagnating growth and rising inflation. The economic phenomenon of ʹstagflationʹ together with an intellectual backlash led by economists such as Milton Friedman and Friedrich Hayek and politicians such as Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan led to the downfall of Keynesianism as a paradigm of economic policy and also as an intellectual tradition among economists. Recently, the financial crisis of 2008 marked yet another turning point in the fortunes of Keynesianism. Keynesian analyses of the crisis proved to be insightful and practical and economic policy inspired by Keynesian thinking produced solid results in the aftermath of the crisis. The present course examines the orgins of Keynes ideas, the details of his thinking and the question of their relevance for todays economic research and policy making. 
The course is structured chronologically and will first focus on Keynesʹ early life, the intellectual origins of his ideas and his role during the First World War and the peace negotiations in Versailles. We will then examine Keynes criticism of orthodox economics and his alternative theoretical framwork in the ʹGeneral theoryʹ. The role of Keynesianims in the post war period and the creation of the Washington Institutions will be examined, as well as the crisis of Keynesianism in the 1970. 
The second half of the course presents recent developments in Post‐Keynesian Theory. The name ʺPost‐Keynesianismʺ was estabilshed in the 1970s to distinguish fundmental Keynesians from the Mainstream. Based on the theoretical framework of Keynes, but also of many classical economists like Ricardo, Marx and Schumpeter, this group developed modern theories of a monetary economy. The course will cover theories of financial instability, an introduction to endogenous money, alternative 
Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 23/12/2020, valid for Spring Semester 2021 Page 1 / 4 
formulations of effective labor demand and the analysis of sectoral financial accounts. The practical implications for todayʹs economic policy will be at the centre of our discussion in class. 
Course structure 
Weekly online meetings. 
Contextual Studies are considered part of Contact Learning; thus, taking part properly implies regular attendance, be it online or icon the classroom. In order to fully comply with the distance and hygiene rules applicable at the university, the course can be taught online or in smaller groups. It is the studentsʹ own responsibility to ensure that there is no timetable clash between the courses they have chosen.A detailed course outline and all relevant documents will be made available onStudynet. 
