After the successful completion of the course, the students will have achieved the following learning objectives; they 
are able to identify, understand, and assess Marx?s ideas and writings in their biographical, historical, and intellectual contexts,
are able to identify, understand, and assess the ways that subsequent Marxists have extended, modified, and critiqued Marx?s ideas under particular historical and intellectual circumstances. 
Between 1917 and 1989, much of the planet was Red. Millions of people in Europe, Asia, and Latin America lived in societies that attempted to realize the ideas of Karl Marx. Then, with the fall of the Berlin Wall and the subsequent collapse of the Soviet Union, Marxism was pronounced dead, the central ideological struggle of the twentieth century was over, and history itself seemed to end. But Marx?s ghost has proven difficult to exorcise. Whenever capitalism falls into crisis, Marx is there, waiting. In the midst of the financial crisis of 2008-2009, Time magazine put Marx on the cover and asked the question on many people?s minds: ?What would Marx think?? More recently, Marxists have returned to Marx?s writings on the authoritarianism of Louis Napoleon to help explain the election of Donald Trump to the US Presidency in 2016. 
This course examines the development of Marx?s thought in its original 19th-century context and the subsequent development of Marxism as an intellectual tradition and political force up to the present. We begin with the European revolutions of 1848 and end with Trump?s election, the rise of the far right, and their consequences for the Covid-19 crisis. 
Course structure 
Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 23/07/2020, valid for Autumn Semester 2020 Page 1 / 4 
The course is taught in weekly sessions and takes a blended learning approach. Normally, some students will be physically present in the seminar room while others will participate in the session online. Some sessions are taught exclusively online. A complete course outline will be published on Studynet at the beginning of the semester. Contextual Studies are considered part of Contact Learning; thus, taking part properly implies regular attendance, be it online or in the classroom. In order to fully comply with the distance and hygiene rules applicable at the university, the course can be taught online and/or in smaller groups. In addition to reading the compulsory texts, the students can be expected to complete e.g. smaller writing and reflection tasks. A detailed course outline and all relevant documents will be made available on Studynet 
