Students will be able to analyze current discussions and controversies about migration from their historical and cultural conditions in an appropriate way. (Reflection competence)
Students can debate and comment on source texts and research literature on the history and present of migration from different perspectives in a coherent and convincing manner. (Reflection and action competence)
Students recognize the changing national and international factors that trigger, promote, hinder and avoid migration and integration at different times and are able to name and historically explain specifics of Swiss migration history. (Reflection competence)
Students apply the historical insights from the course to current political discussions, represent an independent, factually sound position on the topic, deal with dissenting positions in an argumentatively convincing and at the same time as respectfully as possible, in the awareness that there is never just one truth and one moral on the topic of migration (competence of reflection and action).
Measured by its population, Switzerland is one of the largest immigration countries in the world. The proportion of foreign-born population is higher than in classic immigration countries such as Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the USA. In Europe, apart from Luxembourg, no country even comes close to matching the internationality of the Swiss population. Nevertheless, Switzerland still has a culture of small-scale and clod-bound migration, in which migration is perceived as an exception rather than the rule. The seminar explores the historical background of the internal contradictions, great integration successes and fierce controversies in Switzerland as a country of migration. Migration is understood as a discontinuous long-term phenomenon that takes place constantly, but always connects other spaces and different cultures, so that it always retains a moment of the unfamiliar, enriching and irritating. Thus, despite all resistance, migration unfolds an enormous power of transcultural change. Special attention is paid to the various forms of migration and their respective conjunctures (emigration, immigration, internal migration), the causes of migration and their effects on the acceptance and integration of the migrants, as well as
    Fact Sheet Version: 2.0 dated 09.10.2020, valid for the fall semester 2020 Page 1 / 4
 the interplay of international and national factors of an economic, political and legal nature that set the framework for migration and trigger migratory movements.
Course Structure
The course first introduces different forms of migration using Switzerland as an example, with emphasis on emigration, immigration and internal migration. Special attention is given to the interplay of economic, social, military and religious factors as well as to the gender-historical implications of the culture of migration (e.g. by asking whether emigration from Switzerland was a male privilege for centuries). A second thematic block is devoted to the changing legal and political framework of migration to and from Switzerland. The aim here is to build up an understanding of the limited room for maneuver of a small state in the international environment. Finally, a third block will focus on important topics and events in the history of Swiss migration, from the Rice Run to the settlement of religious refugees and overseas emigration to the popular initiatives against immigration of the recent and recent past.
Contextual studies are contact studies in form; therefore, regular attendance, whether online or in person, is required for proper attendance. In order to fully comply with the spacing and hygiene rules in place at the University, the course may be attended online or in small groups. Students must make their own arrangements to ensure that course dates do not overlap. The exact course schedule and all documentation will be provided on Studynet at the beginning of the course.
