By the end of the course, you must: 1. have acquired specific knowledge of the most salient, religiously inspired political ideologies existing in todayʹs Muslim World. 
2. have attained a scholarly grounded knowledge of the historical background, emergence and consolidation of those ideologies and the groups that have embraced them 
3. have acquired nuanced understanding of the context in which these movements emerge and consolidate and capacity to understand the connections between political events, long‐term phenomena and political ideologies. 
4. have developed critical perspectives on modern Islamic social trends and salient related political ideologies within the framework of current scholarly debates on the field. 
This is an introductory course to some of the most salient political groups and developments that consider Islam is the main source of inspiration for their political agendas, groups that have been popularly described under the umbrella term ʹpolitical Islam.ʹ All major religious traditions have generated in modern times discourses of ʹRevivalismʹ and a significant number of them can be seen as endorsing particular political agendas. This course seeks to provide an introduction to help students untangle the meanings associated with the term ʹpolitical Islamʹ, particularly in what refers to current actors. 
With this aim, the course will explore the emergence and consolidation of key ideological trends that define political Islam today, such as the Wahabiyya, the Salafiyya or Jihadism. We will seek to understand the complex nature of politically motivated religious movements, and will explore the issue of political violence, as it articulates through claims attributed to the religion of Islam today. 
We will discuss central tenets typical of certain politicized religious rhetoric within Islam commonly attributed to ʹextremistʹ ideologies (such as martyrdom, jihad or the idea of the Caliphate) and will acquire ground knowledge on some of the movements that have shaped the face of Islamic ʹFundamentalismʹ today (from Al‐ Qaeda, to Hamas or the Islamic State). 
Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 06/01/2021, valid for Spring Semester 2021 Page 1 / 4 
Course structure 
The course covers the following topics: 1. Introduction to the course and to Islam 2. Religious reform in Islam 3. Wahhabism 4. Salafism 5. Jihad ‐ Takfirism 6. Islamist Politics ‐ Ikhwanism (Muslim Brotherhood) 7. Muslim Secularists against Jihad 8. Political Islam shiʹite style ‐ Khomeinism 9. Panislamic Jihad ‐ Al‐Qaeda 10. Nationalist Jihad ‐ al‐Shabab, Boko Haram 11. Recent Jihad groups ‐ ISIS, al‐Qaeda affiliates There will be a screening of a movie as part of the program. 
Contextual Studies are considered part of Contact Learning; thus, taking part properly implies regular attendance, be it online or icon the classroom. In order to fully comply with the distance and hygiene rules applicable at the university, the course can be taught online or in smaller groups. It is the studentsʹ own responsibility to ensure that there is no timetable clash between the courses they have chosen. A detailed course outline and all relevant documents will be made available on Studynet. 
