The students
know basic features of the Russian political system and political culture,
are able to analyze the social, power-political, and mass-psychological elements and characteristics of personalist rule using the example of Vladimir Putin and ʺPutinismʺ.
Vladimir Putin is among the most powerful politicians in the world. He has been shaping Russia for over 20 years, and his style of rule is called ʺPutinismʺ after his name. But who is thisPutin, what are the characteristics of his rule, and what is the basis of the power of this man who began his career as a minor secret service agent? Putin's rise to the top of the state and his position today reveal much about Russia's political culture, which is characterized by paradoxes. Putin is the representative of authoritarian personalized rule, which is booming around the world; he is omnipresent as a public figure, but facts about his life and worldview are scarce; he is at the center of a cult that echoes but ideologically differs from historical cults of leaders. Putin symbolizes internally and externally the stability of a supposedly strong state that threatens to turn into instability and weakness.
The seminar uses Putin as a prism to analyze origins and elements of Putinism as a system of rule in a contemporary historical, social and cultural studies approach.
Event Structure
After a presentation of the history of Russia since the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 and an examination of the basic political concepts of ʺpowerʺ and ʺruleʺ, the social, political, economic, ideological, and visual origins and elements of Putinism as a specific form of personalized authoritarian rule will be presented in an interdisciplinary approach and examined for their commonalities and differences with historical leader cults. Presented are the different interpretations of the scope of personalized power and the associated
      Leaflet version: 1.0 dated 06.01.2021, valid for the spring semester 2021 Page 1 / 4
 inseparable stability and controllability of authoritarian political orders, or on the limits of power and the instability of these political orders.
Contextual Studies is contact study in form; therefore, proper attendance includes regular participation, whether online or in class.In order to fully comply with the spacing and hygiene rules in place at the University, the course may be taken online or in small groups. Students themselves must ensure that course dates do not overlap. The exact course schedule and all documentation will be provided on Studynet at the beginning of the course.

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
