Students will explain (PC) the relations between environmental epochs and socio‐cultural dynamics in the context of contemporary debates on the global environment and climate change (CC). 
By the end of the course, students should have gained: 1. familiarity with the critical debate on the Anthropocene, the global environmental and climate change; 2. understanding of fundamental methods and categories in Environmental Studies 
The term ʺAnthropoceneʺ designates a new epoch of the Quaternary in which humans have actively transformed the geophysical conditions of the Earth and have become a major natural agent, modifying the biosphere at a planetary level. Rooted in the Earth system sciences, this notion has sparked what has been called an ʺAnthropocene turnʺ also in the Humanities and Social Sciences. In particular climate change, a key marker of the Anthropocene, is at the forefront of contemporary public interest, cultural imagination, and political debates. From Hollywood disaster films to the IPCCʹs reports, the vocabulary of abrupt environmental catastrophes, mass populations extinctions, resilience and adaptation has become a trademark of the Anthropocenic paradigm. The course will allow students to explore critically the relevance and implications of the Anthropocene thesis through an interdisciplinary approach that will include textsin critical and political theory, environmental studies and political ecology. 
Course structure 
The course will be conducted online via the platform Zoom. It will be taught over 12 weeks. The weekly sessions will include online lectures, online discussions and student presentations. 
The recordings of the course will not be saved. 
Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 23/12/2020, valid for Spring Semester 2021 Page 1 / 4 
The lecturer will inform through StudyNet about any changed implementation modalities of the course. * 
Contextual Studies are considered part of Contact Learning; thus, taking part properly implies regular attendance, be it online or icon the classroom. In order to fully comply with the distance and hygiene rules applicable at the university, the course can be taught online or in smaller groups. It is the studentsʹ own responsibility to ensure that there is no timetable clash between the courses they have chosen.A detailed course outline and all relevant documents will be made available onStudynet. 
