This course is not a conventional management lecture: Instead of sitting in a lecture hall, you will implement your ideas in local branches. The course consists of a mandatory, interactive two-day workshop that takes place in the second and third week of the semester, as well as five coaching sessions during the semester. The four coaching sessions take place approximately every 14 days by appointment. In teams of five students each, you will be assigned to a branch of a renowned Swiss retailer whose in-store profitability you should improve. We will continuously give you feedback on sales and customer flows. In addition, all student teams will be in competition with the management teams of our partner companies (probably Lidl Switzerland and Migros Do It + Garden). The website https://www.retail‐analytics.ch/ offers you a good overview of the results and content of last year's events.
Your added value:
In-store retail is gaining importance again. Even online first retailers such as Amazon are no longer restricting their expansion to digital space, but are already opening their first stationary branches. At the same time, high fluctuation rates, low returns and increasingly demanding customers pose major challenges for retail. Nonetheless, store managers tend to focus on sales instead of boosting sales of the highest-margin products. Retail is facing a revolution: "Selling more" is only partially better. At the same time, the branch managers hardly use the knowledge of their employees. However, through their daily dealings with customers, they often know the needs of the consumers best.
85 out of 100 women leave a clothing store without buying anything. That is why the KPIs are for improvement the shop profitability in the focus of the course: the conversion rate and the product margin. Equipped with this theoretical knowledge, branch managers can advise you at close quarters on your in-store marketing. In interactive lectures, you will learn the relevant KPIs (Retail Metrics) for effective and profitable in-store management and actively set these in motion together with employees in the shops of the partner companies of the St.Gallen Retail Lab. With our tailor-made sales app and thermographic cameras, you can measure the success of your measures in terms of sales and returns. As part of this, you sharpen your persuasiveness and communication skills when advising branch staff.
Course content and structure
A “retail marathon” gives you in-depth knowledge of the drivers of profitability in brick-and-mortar stores. The theory is complemented by a practical consulting activity. The students work in teams of five / six. Based on the data from the thermographic cameras, the event literature and a branch visit, you will make an initial diagnosis of the branch assigned to you. You will identify potential for improvement as well as show possible recommendations for action and present an implementation plan. You will then present these initial findings in the first coaching session. You will then implement your solutions in consultation with the branch managers on site. During the entire project you will be in competition with branch managers from the same partner company. The aim is to use specially developed in-store marketing measures to achieve the largest percentage increase in profitability among all stores and thus to perform better than the competing branch managers.
particularities
Through the close cooperation with the store management as well as the area employees, you gain authentic insights into the branch structures and immerse yourself in the everyday challenges of retail. The students work with the latest technology and use IRM's own frontline employee empowerment tool. This enables you and the branch employees to view current sales figures and key profitability figures compared to the previous year and to other branches live. 