The course ʺCustomer Value and Communication Management IIʺ consists of 3 parts:
Part I & II: Branding & Communication Part III: Marketing Management Control
Part I and II: Branding & Communication (Dr. Philipp Scharfenberger and Prof. Dr. Christian Fieseler) Content
Consumers are on the run. In times of data overload and information transparency they are hiding in the media jungle and must be tracked down and convinced by marketers. Therefore, marketing messages need to be simple, relevant, and focused. Moreover, it is essential that the content can be used cross medially in order to create a holistic customer experience.
Brand management is a promising approach to deal with that issue. It helps companies to simplify and emotionalize their USP. Moreover, it provides managers and employees with a value based communications guidelines that can be applied in every communications context.

This seminarʹs modules on branding and communication provide participants with a substantial insight into the workings of brand communication, its psychological and sociological basis, fundamental concepts and its proper role in strategic management. Participants will be introduced to theories of media and communication effects, theories of social interaction, selected consumer behavior and brand communications insights to understand the scope and objectives of professional communication. During the course, an engagement framework will be introduced and applied to core audiences such as customers and beyond. Based on this thorough understanding of the processes and effects of marketing communication, the contributions of branding and corporate communication to an organizationʹs strategic success will be explored, the strategic management of communication efforts analyzed, and the intersection to the third element of the course, marketing management control, highlighted.
Objectives and Learning Outcomes
The knowledge and skills necessary to successfully manage corporate and product branding tasks both on the agency and corporate side, and to conduct graduate research in marketing and corporate communication management, will be conveyed
To this end, the participants will explore branding’s sociological and psychological foundations, such as media effects theories, attribution theories, and social/corporate identification.
The key concepts of branding will be explained, defined and differentiated: image, positioning, reputation and brand. Participants will understand the social dynamics of communication and the contribution of marketing communication to organizational success.
The tools and instruments of branding, such as storytelling, behavioral branding, crisis communication, branded journalism, agenda setting, will be explored and subjected to a communication management approach.
Communication functions such as corporate brand management, employee communication and public affairs will be introduced and analyzed based on a strategic framework. The various audiences of a brand will be analyzed and differentiated. Participants will receive an overview of the coordination and synergies of branding, marketing and communications from a strategic marketing perspective.
By the end of the module students will have learned:
Participants will learn the fundamentals of societal and organizational communication in our media society. They will be introduced to relevant current trends in companiesʹ off‐ and online brand environment, in order to help them navigate marketing communications.
Participants will understand a strategic and business administration perspective on branding audiences, efforts and instruments.
Presentations by practitioners and scientists will help participants understand current challenges and best practices in branding.
In a series of workshops, participants will try out several key techniques of brand communications and will adapt them to real‐world case studies.
Part III: Marketing Management Control (Prof. Dr. Sven Reinecke) Content
Although very often marketing is not on the priority lists of CEOs, measuring marketing performance definitely is. Top‐ management increasingly asks for a “Return on Marketing” calculation. Marketing management has to justify the effectiveness and the efficiency of marketing investments, especially regarding branding, events and sponsoring.
The subject of marketing management control constitutes a typical interface between two functions of business administration. The relationship between marketing‐management and controllership is ambivalent. On the one hand, they are depicted as twin sisters because both amount to overlapping concepts that are not the prerogative of experts in a particular field. On the other hand, a natural conflict of objectives and interests arises where marketing is regarded as market‐led management (“spending money”) and controlling is regarded as results‐led management (“saving money”).
Marketing management control cannot, therefore, be equated (any longer) with accounting in marketing, even if the latter is a key source of information. The function of marketing management control is to ensure the effectiveness and the efficiency of marketoriented management.

Objectives and Learning Outcomes
By the end of the module students will have learned:
to critically evaluate marketing performance and marketing efficiency of a company, to apply specific instruments of marketing management control.
a) Knowledge and Understanding
After completing this module the students will have:
Knowledge and understanding of approaches and instruments to evaluate marketing effectiveness and efficiency. Knowledge about new developments in the area of marketing management control.
b) Cognitive and Subject Specific Skills
After completing this module the students will have:
The ability to conduct marketing audits.
The knowhow to organize suitable structures and processes of marketing performance management. The ability to evaluate the customer base of a company using different approaches.
The ability to evaluate the value of a brand.
The knowhow to critically challenge common approaches used by consultancy companies.
The knowhow to critically evaluate the AIDA formula.
The knowhow of how to align marketing strategy and marketing metrics.
The ability to define suitable and adapted marketing dashboards for different marketing strategies.
            