The students know the potential and starting points of digital transformation at the interface between companies and various stakeholder groups (e.g. customers, NGOs, investors or other companies with complementary customer offers).
The students understand the complex transformation processes at the interface to various customer and stakeholder groups and can design them.
The students are able to develop, design and manage comprehensive roadmaps for the digital transformation at the customer and stakeholder interface.
The students understand complex customer and stakeholder experiences and journeys and can analyze, digitally design and optimize them.
The students understand the phenomenon of the “digital customer” and know approaches to analyze the “digital customer” and to design and manage purely digital relationships with them based on data.
The students know approaches for the digitization of services and products and can apply them. The students know the various communication channels to customer and stakeholder groups and understand different approaches and architectures for their integration (e.g. omnichanel).
The students recognize the influence of the general value system in a society as an environment in which customer and stakeholder experiences and journeys are designed.
The students understand the digital transformation processes at the customer and stakeholder interface and have basic skills for starting a career in this area.
Event content
            Leaflet version: 1.0 from 07/29/2020, valid for the autumn semester 2020
Page 1/5
 Technologies such as big data, the Internet of Things or artificial intelligence are being used more and more and the digital transformation is affecting more and more areas in companies and society. One corporate area that is being changed significantly by digital technologies is the interface and relationships between companies and their various stakeholders: e.g. customers, NGOs, investors and others. In particular, the relationships and interfaces with customers are changing as a result of digital transformation and require the use of new technologies and approaches to managing customer relationships. Customer hubs mean that relationships with customers are becoming increasingly digital and are increasingly being handled in purely digital form only via digital channels (e.g. social media or mobile customer loyalty apps). Customers are integrated into company processes in various forms (e.g. crowdsourcing) and communication with customers takes place via a steadily increasing number of digital channels. In addition to established digital communication channels such as social media and mobile apps, there are new ones such as chatbots and voice-based communication. Digitized products are now also being integrated into the communication flows. With new, cross-channel concepts such as customer experience management or customer journey design, companies are establishing integrating interfaces to customers.
Driven by digitization, the complexity of the interface between companies and customers and other stakeholders has increased, and specific, cross-silo IT solutions and architectures are emerging that enable this complexity to be managed.
The aim of this event is to introduce the interface to customers in the field of digital transformation and to show innovative approaches to the management of digital channels and customer relationships. The following topics will be dealt with in the lecture:
1. Overview of changes and requirements in companies that result from the digital transformation of the customer interface;
2. The digital customer - digital identities, reputation and trust - digitization of products I;
3. Innovative customer communication with chatbots, voice assistants and voice-based communication;
4. Integration of digital communication channels by designing customer experiences and journeys 