This course explores how enterprises such as businesses, non‐profits, and governments apply machine learning techniques to generate insights and make more informed decisions. Machine learning techniques are applied in broad set of fields from marketing, finance, operations to strategic planning. The ability to use data effectively to drive rapid, precise and profitable decisions has been a critical strategic advantage for companies of all types and sizes, from famous applications such as Amazon or Netflix to traditional industries such as Claas or John Deere.
In this course, you will learn to identify, evaluate, and capture machine learning opportunities. You will learn fundamental machine learning techniques, how to communicate machine learning results effectively, and to reflect on ethical issues around machine learning. The course will explain through lectures, discussions, invited speakers and real‐world examples the fundamental principles, uses, and some technical details of machine learning methods and applications.
The course emphasizes that machine learning is not a theoretical discipline: these techniques are only interesting and important to the extent that they can be used to provide real insights and improve the speed, reliability, and quality of decisions. The concepts learned in this class should help you identify opportunities in which machine learning can be used to improve decisions in the real‐world. It should make you alert to the ways that machine learning can be used ‐ and misused ‐ within an organization. Machine learning is an integral part of modern management ‐ this course should provide you with the foundation you need to understand in order to apply these methods to drive value in business practice.

This course is designed to learn the fundamental principles, uses, basic technical details, and practical applications of machine learning. The emphasis is on both a basic understanding of core concepts and how to work with data practically. This is not a course about data mining algorithms, data warehouse, database querying or OLAP. This is a course about fundamental concepts of machine learning and a first primer on how to model data practically.
I expect you to be prepared for class discussions and to have understood the material weʹve covered in prior classes. The class meetings are a combination of lectures, discussions, and hands‐on working with data (primarily in JMP; some implementation details in R).
After taking this course you should:
1. Approach business problems data‐analytically and transform real‐word problems into analytics and machine learning problems. Think carefully & systematically about whether and how data can improve business and to make better‐ informed management decisions based on data.
2. Be able to interact competently on the topic of machine learning in business. Know the basics of the machine learning process, algorithms, and systems well enough to interact with CTOs, expert machine learning practitioners, consultants, or academics.
3. Develop a proficiency in the practice of machine learning by gaining hands‐on experience in analysing data. Know how to decide when to use which technique and to be prepared to follow up on opportunities that present themselves (e.g., relational / social network data, unstructured text data).
4. Communicate machine learning results effectively to non‐technical audiences by using compelling statistical graphics and to develop precise, written management summaries.