The course pursues learning objectives on the three levels ʺKnowingʺ (knowledge), ʺDoingʺ (competences) and ʺBeingʺ (behaviour, attitudes, self‐awareness):
The students are familiar with the most important theoretical concepts in the 10 subject areas of marketing management.
The students can apply and question these concepts in various cases.
The students experience their decision‐making behaviour in a group and under stress and are able to question attitudes and rationalities as well as action patterns.
Course content
Embedding:
The course ʺMarketing Managementʺ concentrates on the central aspects of customer‐oriented value creation in modern companies (Customer Centricity). Based on an in‐depth understanding of customer behavior (see course ʺCustomer Behaviorʺ), the leadership and management concepts for market‐oriented leadership are taught. The structure of the course follows the classic management and leadership cycle. At the same time, the course should also impart analysis, decision‐making and communication skills as well as behavioural experiences in stressful situations.

Topics
The course covers the following topics (subject to change):
1. Customer Centricity: Market Orientation ‐ Managing and Leading from the Customer Side (Leadership and Marketing)
2. Legal Side of Marketing 1: Competition Law, Bribery, Money Laundering, Datenschutz
3. Legal Side of Marketing 2: Cases for Marketers
4. Customer Value, Value Concepts, Value Creation: Managing Customer Experience
5. Value Capturing: Managing the Product/Service Profit Link
       Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 13/01/2021, valid for Spring Semester 2021
Page 1 / 4
 6. Technology and Marketing: Managing the Digital Side of the Customer Relation (Identity and Personality in the Digital Space; Communities and Influencer)
7. Positioning and Brand: Defining the Market Strategy
8. Digital Marketing
9. Marketing Planning: Managing the Marketing Instruments
10. Marketing Innovation: From Innovation Process to Crowd Sourcing
Course structure
Method:
The course follows the concept of blended learning. The students acquire the necessary knowledge in self‐study. Central journal articles and a case study are provided per block. In class, the central concepts are practiced on the basis of the cases. The course is concluded by a two‐day marketing simulation as a business game, which is combined with in‐basket exercises.
The simulation helps the students to understand and apply the contents of the lecture. At the same time, the pressure to make decisions under uncertainty in teams should provide an opportunity to gain self‐awareness. This is reflected by means of common concepts of leadership and group dynamics.
Schedule:
The following weekly schedule is central:
1. Journal article
Individual reading of the journal article(s)
2. Questions about the journal article 3. Reading the case
Requires answering questions about journal article 4. Preliminary discussion of the case in study groups
5‐6 students
Presence in the pre‐booked room prior to the course 5. Lecture
Course with case study discussion Clarification of concepts
