The course ʺMarketing Functionsʺ deals with the central instruments of marketing: (1) Product, (2) Retailing & Sales, (3) Price, and (4) Communication. These four marketing tools are the core activities that each marketing manager must take into account in his/her daily work. Competences on the four marketing instruments help companies to develop new products and services, price them correctly on the market, distribute them effectively, and communicate them successfully.
The aim of this lecture is to give MiMM students an understanding of operational know‐how and current trends regarding these instruments in order to prepare them sufficiently for their careers.
Course structure
The ʺMarketing Functionsʺ lecture is divided into three sections of three weeks and one section of two weeks. Each section is taught by a lecturer with years of experience in the respective field.
The following contents will be covered in the individual sections:
Section 1: Product innovation (Prof. Dr. Andreas Herrmann)
Lecture 1: Recognize customer benefits
The aim of this lecture is to define the tasks of products and to work out the customer benefits. Examples will be given to illustrate how to proceed and which tools are available.
Lecture 2: Define products
Products must be developed on the basis of the previously identified benefits. The process of transforming market requirements into product specifications will be explained. Again examples serve to illustrate this approach.
Lecture 3: Means‐end analysis
Again and again, engineers and technicians develop outstanding products or product features. These must then be adapted to market requirements as part of a translation process. For this purpose, techniques exist that have found widespread use in practice.
      Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 12/01/2021, valid for Spring Semester 2021
Page 1 / 4
 Section 2: Retailing & Sales (Dr. Kristina Kleinlercher)
Lecture 1: Changes in Retail & Sales
The aim of the first lecture is to discuss current changes and trends in the Retailing & Sales sector. One of those changes is the increasing importance of e‐commerce and the integration of online and offline channels ‐ so‐called cross‐channel management. In addition, this lecture will highlight the development, that evermore manufacturers are selling their products directly to customers (D2C) and are thus becoming retailers themselves. We will look at innovative retail concepts in Europe, China, and the USA and give current examples of what the future of retailing could look like. Additionally, a guest lecturer will shed light on contemporary challenges and trends in Retail & Sales in practice.
Lecture 2: Customer Inspiration and Customer Experience
The second lecture is dedicated to customer inspiration and customer experience. First, the importance of these two constructs in the Retail & Sales context will be highlighted. The students will learn how customer inspiration and customer experience differ from other marketing constructs (e.g. customer loyalty or customer satisfaction), and how they are measured. Then some practical examples show how retailers can achieve high customer inspiration and customer experience and what influence they have on sales and earnings. A guest speaker from an inspirational retail company will also be invited to this session.
Lecture 3: Retail Metrics along the Customer Journey
During the third session students get to know the most common customer journeys in different customer segments and retail sectors. Building on these insights, students will learn which key measures can be used to analyze and improve different touchpoints along the customer journey. In the interactive part of this session, students will apply this knowledge in case studies and will elaborate implications on how to ameliorate specific retail metrics at different touchpoints in the journey. In a next step, students present their findings to their fellow students and lecturers. Finally, a guest lecture will provide students with practical insights on retail metrics along the customer journey.
Section 3: Pricing ‐ Capturing Value (Prof. Dr. Sven Reinecke)
The three lectures in Pricing focus on the following topics:
Special features of price management: The price differs greatly from the other marketing instruments ‐ it is the consideration of the customer for the added value created by the other marketing instruments. Furthermore, the price works much faster than all other instruments. On the other hand, the information deficit in pricing is often very high, so that companies often resort to simple heuristics.
Value pricing: In addition to costs and competition, customer value is a central framework for price management. The course will discuss the various ways of defining and enforcing value‐based pricing in the market (keywords: conjoint analysis, Van Westendorp analysis, Delphi method). The focus will be on pricing services and new products.
Price communication also plays an important role.
Which forms of price differentiation are effective in which form? What innovative pricing methods and models exist (for example, with regard to online pricing)?
Auctions are a special form of pricing ‐ and there are numerous variants (e.g. online/offline, one‐sided/two‐sided, English/American, Japanese). When are auctions appropriate and which variant makes sense in which situation?
How should pricing processes be organized in companies?
Section 4: Marketing Communication (Dr. Dennis Vogt)
Lecture 1: Communication of Innovations
Marketing of Innovations represents an integral part of the daily business of marketing and sales managers. However, it involves considerable challenges with regard to marketing communication. A deep understanding for the different phases of innovation adoption by consumers represents a prerequisite for efficient and effective communication strategies and measures. Thereby, success is strongly determined by perceived newness and meaningfulness of innovations. Further, success is strongly determined by the degree to which an innovation may be integrated into existing routines and rituals of consumers or the degree to which new consumer routines and rituals can be established.
Lecture 2: Behavioral Branding
The relevance of behavioral branding ‐ establishment of brand consistent behavior of employees ‐ has become more and more important in the context of digitalization as well as the increasing shift from product to service‐oriented companies.
      
 represent one of the most important ʺchannelsʺ for brand communication. If employees act in accordance with the brand, they are considerably strengthening the brand. However, if employees do not live up expectations evoked through other channels of marketing communication, consumers are likely to be disappointed and the brand is weakened.
The final exam takes place during the last lecture date. Please refer to the online timetable for exact time and room details.