The course is a compulsory subject required for all students in the MiMM Masters program and has the following objectives:
- Welcome & Introduction:
Students are introduced to the faculty, marketing club, AWP, and general objectives of the Masters program.
- Current challenges:
The boot camp offers a series of input lectures and presentations from industry experts. Case studies and best practices are presented. This will help students identify current marketing challenges and discuss various case studies in teams.
- Leadership and group work:
The students are divided into groups to discuss the steps of change management from a leadership perspective. The aim is to understand the role of project responsibility and personal will for organizational success.
Event content
The "Basics of Marketing Management" course forms the "kick off" for entry into the Master in Marketing Management (MiMM). In terms of content, the course focuses on the central design fields of customer-oriented value creation in modern companies (customer centricity). The focus is on aligning the level of knowledge of the participants. At the same time, the students are to be brought together (“Class of 20XX”) and the sense of community to be strengthened.
During the five days the following topics will be covered:
Customer Centricity: Market orientation & leadership from the customer's point of view
Marketing conception: goals, strategies and instruments
Leadership: Leadership behavior as a challenge for market-oriented corporate management Embracing Change: Dealing with market-oriented change processes
        
The course can be roughly divided into two blocks. Participation in both blocks is a prerequisite for successfully completing the course:
1. The Bootcamp (14.09.2020 - 16.09.2020):
Introduction to the Master in Marketing Management and the AWP, Marketing and Leadership, case study in groups
about Marketing & Leadershipʺ.
Transformational Leadership, continuation of the group case studies.
Guest lectures, introduction to the study trip, presentation of the case study results of each group.
1. The study trip (17.09.2020-18.09.2020): Two-day trip. Visiting several innovative companies and discussing the application of marketing theory in a market environment. 