With the Sport Marketingʺ seminar, we offer interested students the opportunity to understand the main features and characteristics of the sport ecosystem and sport economy - including the primacy of sporting success over the subordinate profit maximization - and to apply them to specific business cases. The "half-knowledge" that is often circulating in sports marketing and the phenomenon that is widespread here that "experts" often "have a say" without an academic background should be countered by a well-founded structure and solid knowledge.
Therefore, the focus of the course offer is on the one hand the imparting of a basic lege interpretation regulationʺ for professional sport, on the other hand, the group-by-group development of a company-specific question in the form of a professional presentation as a deep dive into the topic, under guidance and coaching by the course instructor.
Event content
Today (professional) sport is recognized as a relevant industry and economic factor. The 4 major professional sports leagues in Germany alone, the football Bundesliga, the handball Bundesliga, the German ice hockey league and the basketball league, have around 50 million fans, offer around 90,000 jobs, and generate total sales of around EUR 4.85 billion or approx 2.57 billion taxes and duties (www.profisport-deutschland.de). (Live) sports content is also perhaps the most valuable media asset in the world, and both sowohlkiller contentʺ and the driver of business models from a wide variety of media providers.
In general, the focus is exclusively on professional sport. Other facets of sport, especially sportswear and fitness / apps or nutrition, are not dealt with here.
When structuring the ʺSport Marketingʺ ecosystem, we orientate ourselves on the traditionally relevant sources of income in (professional) sport - these also give the course its logic: B2B advertising / sponsoring, B2C game day proceeds, media rights, capital investments, transfer income (not considered here, as there is no original one Marketing topic).
The perspective is on the one hand the providers of professional sports, i.e. rights holders such as associations / leagues, clubs, individual athletes and singular events such as the Olympic Games, World and European Championships, and on the other hand the respective "opposite side" along the above-mentioned sources of income, i.e. sponsors, end customers / fans, Media providers, investors.
    Leaflet version: 1.0 dated December 30, 2020, valid for the spring semester 2021 page 1/4
 The 4 sources of income mentioned are conveyed both by the lecturers and by the students in small groups in the form of "mini-cases" and subsequent presentations.
Following the structure of the 4 areas, the course consists of 4 thematic blocks, whereby each topic is viewed from the two perspectives of the rights holder and the respective counterpart ’.
The highlight and conclusion of the course is a block seminar, which - if the Corona conditions allow in spring 2021 - will be held as a lpeek behind the scenesʺ on site at an attractive rights holder. In this context, a game or similar should be attended together and the group presentations take place. The seminar should also be enriched by practical lectures by well-known representatives from professional sports.
Event structure
Semester week 2 Kick Off event: Introduction, overview of sports marketing, organizational matters, allocation of groups and topics
Semester week 3
Semester week 4
Semester week 5
Semester week 6
Sports Marketing Module 1: Advertising / Sponsoring Sports Marketing Module 2: B2C Income
Sports Marketing Module 3: Media Rights Sports Marketing Module 4: Investors
Block seminar off ‐ site: Visit of a leading rights holder (if possible),
Semester week 8
Student presentations, guest lectures
Disclaimer: Attention: The current time and room details in the online timetable apply, as times and rooms can change at short notice.
The introductory event as well as modules 1 to 4 take place every 4 hours, the block seminar on two full days, detailed information on this will follow at the latest in the introductory event.
The on-site / hybrid / digital implementation is based on the circumstances and HSG requirements in spring 2021.
Each event module (except for the block seminar) therefore comprises 4 hours and is divided into two blocks: input block of 120 minutes and self-study of 120 minutes.
The students work on self-study in fixed groups that are divided up as part of the introductory event. In addition to self-study, the students also work on the block seminar or group presentation at the end of the event within these groups.
The self-study block within each event module should serve to deepen the content of the preceding input block and apply it yourself.
