Students...
know the essential theoretical and practical contexts and special characteristics of tourism marketing and destination marketing;
can understand scientific articles (and textbook texts) and apply them to specific cases;
understand the impact of the most important drivers for the design of tourism marketing in general and destination marketing in particular;
can critically evaluate and comment on practices in tourism and destination marketing as well as develop and argue for alternatives;
conceive travel in tourist destinations as collective performance that produces visitor flows;
observe, reconstruct, and analyse visitor flows in reality and with the help of the flow‐based approach;
are capable of deriving actions and initiatives based on selected findings from the flow‐based approach.
Course content
Tourism and destination marketing are based on a number of peculiarities which make a transfer of general marketing theory too short. They are essentially driven by the phenomenon of ʺtourismʺ and the role of the customer or guest and can be described as follows:
1. Tourism is ‐ macroscopically ‐ a social phenomenon which arises as a result of the sum of all individual social behaviour outside the everyday activity area (travel and stays). This phenomenon manifests itself through differently appealing attraction points (ʺsugarʺ) and the streams of visitors (ʺantsʺ) generated by these points.
2. Travel is classic basket goods, the necessary decisions for this good are ‐ in core portfolio ‐ decisions on various constituent elements, including traveller(s), destination, transport, accommodation, time and duration, activities, et.. These constituent elements are related to each other in different ways, both inverse and inverse.
3. Customers do not simply ʺbuyʺ tourist services or products, but such services or offers are resources and thus value‐added inputs for their own production of tourist experiences (cf. Beckerʹs theory of household production). Naturally, ʺcustomersʺ are always co‐bearers and co‐designers of corresponding processes. Tourist experiences therefore always emerge in the context of ʺco‐creationʺ.
4. Due to the spatial and temporal separation of decision and performance, tourist purchases often take place at increased risk. Mitigating unwanted risks is therefore one of the central and often complex tasks in tourism marketing.
The course essentially derives the findings relevant to tourism and destination management from these peculiarities.The course consists of 8 sessions to get familiar with key theoretical and practical issues as well as a two‐day excursion to Zermatt (06‐07.04.2021)
           Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 30/12/2020, valid for Spring Semester 2021

 (if it is possible because of the Covid‐19‐situation) ‐ specific program will be added to Canvas) during which a concrete case is discussed with the help of what has been learned.
The contents of the 8 sessions are:
(1) Introduction and overview
(2) Consumer behaviour in the context of tourism
(3) Marketing instruments I (product, promotion, pricing I) (4) Marketing instruments II (pricing II and distribution) (5) Travel in destinations and visitor flows
(6) Corridors, trajectories, and visitor flows
(7) The flow‐based approach (SGDM)
(8) Consequences for DMOs