With the proliferation of mobile devices and the growth of user‐generated content, we see an unprecedented growth of individuals producing content themselves and interacting, sharing, and consuming this content through social media and other channels. A key challenge in research and business practice is to make informed decisions based on the properties of those exchanges for applications such as new product introductions, crime prevention, or even campaigning (such as in politics).
This course is designed to introduce students to the concepts and statistical methods to collect, visualize, and analyze data streams that cover such relational properties. This course puts an emphasis on data types that are typically found in social media applications and how to analyze the relational properties of such data. This course focuses on the query, visualization, and analysis of textual, voice and relational network data (social network analysis and text mining).
We will first cover the basics of R, an open‐source statistical software. Second, we will cover ways to crawl, analyze, and make inferences using textual data (such as accessing and analyzing data via Twitter and other applications). Third, we will cover ways to analyze network and audio data, detecting communities from networks and extracting information from voice data.
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
After taking this course you should:
1. Be able to use statistical software programs to query and visualize textual, voice and network data.
2. Be able to summarize and assess the sentiments of textual data, extract and identify the main topics of textual data and to
analyze the characteristics of networks using graph theoretic metrics. 3. Be able to extract and visualize the main features of audio data.
Course content
Course Schedule
   Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 13/01/2021, valid for Spring Semester 2021 Page 1 / 8
 Schedule below is tentative and can be modified.
   Event
    Date
  Details
    Additional Readings
  Session 1
    Introduction and R Basics 1
New Challenges for Mining Social Web Data
Notes on Readings, Term Project, and Grading
Data Structures
Reading and Writing Functions Installing and Loading Packages Functions
For, while loops and If Statements
          (Matloff, 2011)
  Session 2
        R Basics 2
Data Visualization: ggplot2
Filtering, joining and summarizing data: dplyr
Tidyverse
        (Grolemund & Wickham, 2018)
  Session 3
    Introduction to Text Mining
Text Mining Basic Workflow Pre‐processing
Representations: Bag of Words, Term Frequency, TFIDF
Basic Text Visualizations: Word Clouds, Word Associations and Word Networks
       (Kwartler, 1991, Chapters 1, 2 & 3; Provost & Fawcett, 2013, Chapter 10)
   Session 4
        Web Scraping
Understanding Web Structure HTML Objects
APIs (Facebook and Twitter) JSON Objects
         (Marble, 2016)
  Session 5
        Sentiment & Polarity Analysis
Semantic Orientation Feature Extraction
       (Dahal, Kumar, & Li, 2019; Mejova, 2009)
  Session 6
     Mid‐term Exam & Topic Modeling
Latent Dirichlet allocation Classification
Feature extraction
       (Dahal et al., 2019; Mejova, 2009)
           Fact sheet version: 1.0 as of 13/01/2021, valid for Spring Semester 2021
 Semester BreakSession 7Lab Session ‐ Modeling Twitter Data
Data Acquisition Text Processing
Data Visualization Sentiment & Polarity
    Session 8Network Analysis
Graph Theoretical Representation of Data Types of Graphs & Connectivity
Basic Properties and Network Measures PageRank Algorithm
Community Detection
Community Evolution and Evaluation
      (Ng & Soo, 2017, Chapter 5; Zafarani, Abbasi, & Liu, 2014, Chapters 2, 3 & 4)Session 9Audio Analytics
Basics of sound: amplitude, fundamental frequency, pitch, loudness
Feature Extraction: VoiceR
  (Hildebrand et al., 2020)Session 10Audio Analytics Lab
Preprocessing audio
Extracting features from audio Analyzing voice Files using the VoiceR package
   Session 11Team Presentations